README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <strong>Race Timing Dashboard</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Live timing board for F1, karting, or any track — dark UI, admin backend, Docker-ready.
</p>

<details open>
<summary><b>📸 Screenshots</b></summary>

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/image1.jpg" alt="Dashboard" width="32%" />
  <img src="assets/image2.jpg" alt="Admin panel" width="32%" />
  <img src="assets/image3.jpg" alt="Fullscreen view" width="32%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <sub><b>Dashboard</b></sub> &nbsp;·&nbsp; <sub><b>Admin</b></sub> &nbsp;·&nbsp; <sub><b>Fullscreen</b></sub>
</p>

</details>

---

## Contents

- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Features](#features)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Development](#development)
- [API](#api)
- [Production & deployment](#production--deployment)
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [License](#license)

---

## Tech stack

| Layer    | Stack |
| -------- | ----- |
| **Frontend** | Next.js (App Router), React, TailwindCSS, TypeScript |
| **Backend**  | Node.js, Express |
| **Database** | SQLite via [sql.js](https://sql.js.org/) (no native build) |
| **API**      | REST (tracks, laps, config) |

---

## Features

- **Dashboard** — Multi-track or single-track fullscreen, fastest laps, auto-refresh (5s), optional track outline per track
- **Admin** — Headline & status, dashboard track selection, track outline upload (PNG), tracks & lap times (format `m:ss.xxx`), driver management
- **Deploy** — Docker Compose or Portainer (Git or pre-built images)

---

## Quick start

**Prerequisites:** Node.js 18+, npm

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd Formel1Dash
```

**Backend**

```bash
cd backend && npm install && npm run dev
```

**Frontend** (new terminal)

```bash
cd frontend && npm install && npm run dev
```

- **App:** [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)  
- **API:** [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001)

The SQLite DB and tables are created on first run. To init explicitly: `cd backend && npm run db:init`.

---

## Development

1. Open **http://localhost:3000** → **Admin** to add tracks and lap times.
2. Open **http://localhost:3000/dashboard** for the live timing board (select tracks in Admin → Dashboard track selection).

### F1 25 live telemetry (UDP)

The dashboard can show **live lap time** from F1 25 when the game sends UDP telemetry to the backend.

1. **Backend:** Ensure the backend is running (it listens for UDP on the port set in Admin, default **20777**).
2. **In-game (F1 25):** Enable UDP output and set:
   - **IP address:** The PC where the backend runs. Use `127.0.0.1` (or `localhost`) if the game and backend are on the same machine; use that PC’s LAN IP (e.g. `192.168.1.10`) if the game runs on another PC.
   - **Port:** Same as in Admin (default **20777**).
   - UDP / telemetry output is usually under **Settings → Telemetry** or **Broadcast**.
3. **Admin:** Set **F1 25 UDP Telemetry** → Bind address (e.g. `0.0.0.0`) and Port (e.g. `20777`) → Save.
4. **Dashboard:** Open **http://localhost:3000/dashboard**. When you are in a session and the game is sending data, the view switches to a large **live current lap** (and last lap). When no data is received for a few seconds, the normal dashboard is shown.

**Troubleshooting**

- **No live lap on dashboard:**  
  - Watch the **backend console**. You should see `[F1 25 UDP] Listening on 0.0.0.0:20777`. When the game sends packets you’ll see logs like “First packet received” or “Lap Data: current=…ms”.  
  - If you see **no UDP logs**: the game is not sending to this PC/port. Check in-game IP and port, and firewall (allow UDP **in** on the telemetry port).  
  - If you see “First packet received” but **packetId** is not 2 or size is not 1285: the game may be using a different format; the log shows size and packetId to compare.  
- **Same machine:** Use IP `127.0.0.1` in the game and bind address `0.0.0.0` in Admin.  
- **Game on another PC:** Use the backend PC’s LAN IP in the game and ensure the backend port is open for UDP (e.g. Windows Firewall → Inbound rule for port 20777).

---

## API

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
| :----: | -------- | ----------- |
| GET | `/api/tracks` | List tracks |
| GET | `/api/tracks/:id` | Get one track |
| POST | `/api/tracks` | Create track `{ name, country }` |
| DELETE | `/api/tracks/:id` | Delete track |
| GET | `/api/laps` | List laps (optional `?track_id=`) |
| GET | `/api/laps/track/:trackId` | Fastest laps for track |
| POST | `/api/laps` | Create lap `{ driver_name, lap_time, track_id }` |
| DELETE | `/api/laps/:id` | Delete lap |

---

## Production & deployment

### Local production build

```bash
# Backend
cd backend && npm start

# Frontend (set NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL to your API URL first)
cd frontend && npm run build && npm start
```

### Docker (one command)

From project root:

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

- **Frontend:** http://localhost:3000  
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001  
- Data (DB + uploads) is stored in Docker volumes.

The frontend uses the **browser’s host** for the API when you don’t set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL`, so the same image works when you open the app from another machine (e.g. `http://server-ip:3000` → API: `http://server-ip:3001/api`). To force a specific URL (e.g. for a reverse proxy), set before building:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://myserver:3001/api
```

**How to check that the API URL is correct**

1. Open the app from the machine you care about (same PC or another on the network).
2. Open DevTools (F12) → **Network** tab.
3. Use the app (e.g. open Admin, load tracks or save something).
4. Click any request to your API (e.g. `tracks`, `config/...`). The request URL should use the **same host** as the page (e.g. `http://192.168.1.50:3001/api/...` when you opened `http://192.168.1.50:3000`). If you see `http://localhost:3001/...` while the page is `http://server-ip:3000`, rebuild the frontend without setting `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` and redeploy.
5. In **Admin**, the header shows **API: http://…** — that should match the host you used to open the page (e.g. `http://192.168.1.50:3001` when you opened `http://192.168.1.50:3000`).

### Portainer

| Scenario | What to do |
| -------- | ---------- |
| **Standalone (build allowed)** | Stacks → Add stack → **Git repository** → repo URL, Compose path: `docker-compose.yml` → Deploy. Optionally set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL`. |
| **Swarm / no build** | Build and push images locally (see below), then Stacks → **Web editor** → paste `docker-compose.portainer.yml` → set env `REGISTRY=YOUR_DOCKERHUB_USER` → Deploy. |

**Build and push for Portainer (when build is disabled):**

```bash
docker-compose build
docker tag formel1dash-backend:latest YOUR_USER/formel1dash-backend:latest
docker tag formel1dash-frontend:latest YOUR_USER/formel1dash-frontend:latest
docker push YOUR_USER/formel1dash-backend:latest
docker push YOUR_USER/formel1dash-frontend:latest
```

If the app is used from another host, rebuild the frontend with the correct API URL:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://YOUR_SERVER:3001/api docker-compose build frontend
# then tag and push formel1dash-frontend:latest as above
```

In Portainer, use **Web editor** with `docker-compose.portainer.yml` and set `REGISTRY` to your Docker Hub username (or e.g. `ghcr.io/YOUR_USER`).

---

## Project structure

```
backend/
  server.js, database.js    # App & SQLite
  routes/, controllers/     # API
  scripts/initDb.js         # DB init

frontend/
  app/                      # Next.js App Router (dashboard, admin)
  lib/api.ts                # API client
  components/               # CountryFlag, TrackOutline, etc.
```

---

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add F1-25 UDP, track CRUD and Admin UI
Expose F1 2025 UDP telemetry port (20777/udp) in Dockerfile and docker-compose and document how to configure the game/host in README. Fix a track name in the F1 UDP parser. Add backend support for updating tracks and deleting track-outline images (new controller functions and routes). Update admin frontend with a tabbed interface and many UX improvements: track editing/updating, upload/replace/delete outline images (input key refresh), dashboard track helpers, telemetry alias/port UI, lap filtering and driver suggestions, and related state/hooks.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <strong>Race Timing Dashboard</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Live timing board for F1, karting, or any track — dark UI, admin backend, Docker-ready.
</p>

<details open>
<summary><b>📸 Screenshots</b></summary>

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/image1.jpg" alt="Dashboard" width="32%" />
  <img src="assets/image2.jpg" alt="Admin panel" width="32%" />
  <img src="assets/image3.jpg" alt="Fullscreen view" width="32%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <sub><b>Dashboard</b></sub> &nbsp;·&nbsp; <sub><b>Admin</b></sub> &nbsp;·&nbsp; <sub><b>Fullscreen</b></sub>
</p>

</details>

---

## Contents

- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Features](#features)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Development](#development)
- [API](#api)
- [Production & deployment](#production--deployment)
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [License](#license)

---

## Tech stack

| Layer    | Stack |
| -------- | ----- |
| **Frontend** | Next.js (App Router), React, TailwindCSS, TypeScript |
| **Backend**  | Node.js, Express |
| **Database** | SQLite via [sql.js](https://sql.js.org/) (no native build) |
| **API**      | REST (tracks, laps, config) |

---

## Features

- **Dashboard** — Multi-track or single-track fullscreen, fastest laps, auto-refresh (5s), optional track outline per track
- **Admin** — Headline & status, dashboard track selection, track outline upload (PNG), tracks & lap times (format `m:ss.xxx`), driver management
- **Deploy** — Docker Compose or Portainer (Git or pre-built images)

---

## Quick start

**Prerequisites:** Node.js 18+, npm

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd Formel1Dash
```

**Backend**

```bash
cd backend && npm install && npm run dev
```

**Frontend** (new terminal)

```bash
cd frontend && npm install && npm run dev
```

- **App:** [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)  
- **API:** [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001)

The SQLite DB and tables are created on first run. To init explicitly: `cd backend && npm run db:init`.

---

## Development

1. Open **http://localhost:3000** → **Admin** to add tracks and lap times.
2. Open **http://localhost:3000/dashboard** for the live timing board (select tracks in Admin → Dashboard track selection).

### F1 25 live telemetry (UDP)

The dashboard can show **live lap time** from F1 25 when the game sends UDP telemetry to the backend.

1. **Backend:** Ensure the backend is running (it listens for UDP on the port set in Admin, default **20777**).
2. **In-game (F1 25):** Enable UDP output and set:
   - **IP address:** The PC where the backend runs. Use `127.0.0.1` (or `localhost`) if the game and backend are on the same machine; use that PC’s LAN IP (e.g. `192.168.1.10`) if the game runs on another PC.
   - **Port:** Same as in Admin (default **20777**).
   - UDP / telemetry output is usually under **Settings → Telemetry** or **Broadcast**.
3. **Admin:** Set **F1 25 UDP Telemetry** → Bind address (e.g. `0.0.0.0`) and Port (e.g. `20777`) → Save.
4. **Dashboard:** Open **http://localhost:3000/dashboard**. When you are in a session and the game is sending data, the view switches to a large **live current lap** (and last lap). When no data is received for a few seconds, the normal dashboard is shown.

**Troubleshooting**

- **No live lap on dashboard:**  
  - Watch the **backend console**. You should see `[F1 25 UDP] Listening on 0.0.0.0:20777`. When the game sends packets you’ll see logs like “First packet received” or “Lap Data: current=…ms”.  
  - If you see **no UDP logs**: the game is not sending to this PC/port. Check in-game IP and port, and firewall (allow UDP **in** on the telemetry port).  
  - If you see “First packet received” but **packetId** is not 2 or size is not 1285: the game may be using a different format; the log shows size and packetId to compare.  
- **Same machine:** Use IP `127.0.0.1` in the game and bind address `0.0.0.0` in Admin.  
- **Game on another PC:** Use the backend PC’s LAN IP in the game and ensure the backend port is open for UDP (e.g. Windows Firewall → Inbound rule for port 20777).

---

## API

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
| :----: | -------- | ----------- |
| GET | `/api/tracks` | List tracks |
| GET | `/api/tracks/:id` | Get one track |
| POST | `/api/tracks` | Create track `{ name, country }` |
| DELETE | `/api/tracks/:id` | Delete track |
| GET | `/api/laps` | List laps (optional `?track_id=`) |
| GET | `/api/laps/track/:trackId` | Fastest laps for track |
| POST | `/api/laps` | Create lap `{ driver_name, lap_time, track_id }` |
| DELETE | `/api/laps/:id` | Delete lap |

---

## Production & deployment

### Local production build

```bash
# Backend
cd backend && npm start

# Frontend (set NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL to your API URL first)
cd frontend && npm run build && npm start
```

### Docker (one command)

From project root:

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

- **Frontend:** http://localhost:3000  
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001  
- Data (DB + uploads) is stored in Docker volumes.

**F1 25 telemetry in Docker:** The backend must receive UDP on port **20777** from the game. Compose publishes `20777/udp` so the game can send to the **host** (e.g. the server’s LAN IP or `127.0.0.1` if the game is on the same machine). In-game set UDP **IP** = that host, **Port** = 20777. In Admin set UDP port 20777 (bind address `0.0.0.0` is correct inside the container).

The frontend uses the **browser’s host** for the API when you don’t set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL`, so the same image works when you open the app from another machine (e.g. `http://server-ip:3000` → API: `http://server-ip:3001/api`). To force a specific URL (e.g. for a reverse proxy), set before building:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://myserver:3001/api
```

**How to check that the API URL is correct**

1. Open the app from the machine you care about (same PC or another on the network).
2. Open DevTools (F12) → **Network** tab.
3. Use the app (e.g. open Admin, load tracks or save something).
4. Click any request to your API (e.g. `tracks`, `config/...`). The request URL should use the **same host** as the page (e.g. `http://192.168.1.50:3001/api/...` when you opened `http://192.168.1.50:3000`). If you see `http://localhost:3001/...` while the page is `http://server-ip:3000`, rebuild the frontend without setting `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` and redeploy.
5. In **Admin**, the header shows **API: http://…** — that should match the host you used to open the page (e.g. `http://192.168.1.50:3001` when you opened `http://192.168.1.50:3000`).

### Portainer

| Scenario | What to do |
| -------- | ---------- |
| **Standalone (build allowed)** | Stacks → Add stack → **Git repository** → repo URL, Compose path: `docker-compose.yml` → Deploy. Optionally set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL`. |
| **Swarm / no build** | Build and push images locally (see below), then Stacks → **Web editor** → paste `docker-compose.portainer.yml` → set env `REGISTRY=YOUR_DOCKERHUB_USER` → Deploy. |

**Build and push for Portainer (when build is disabled):**

```bash
docker-compose build
docker tag formel1dash-backend:latest YOUR_USER/formel1dash-backend:latest
docker tag formel1dash-frontend:latest YOUR_USER/formel1dash-frontend:latest
docker push YOUR_USER/formel1dash-backend:latest
docker push YOUR_USER/formel1dash-frontend:latest
```

If the app is used from another host, rebuild the frontend with the correct API URL:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://YOUR_SERVER:3001/api docker-compose build frontend
# then tag and push formel1dash-frontend:latest as above
```

In Portainer, use **Web editor** with `docker-compose.portainer.yml` and set `REGISTRY` to your Docker Hub username (or e.g. `ghcr.io/YOUR_USER`).

---

## Project structure

```
backend/
  server.js, database.js    # App & SQLite
  routes/, controllers/     # API
  scripts/initDb.js         # DB init

frontend/
  app/                      # Next.js App Router (dashboard, admin)
  lib/api.ts                # API client
  components/               # CountryFlag, TrackOutline, etc.
```

---

## License

MIT
